k6 v0.39.0 release notes (#2581)
grafana/k6: release notes/v0.39.0.md

> k6 v0.39.0 is here! :tada: It's a small release that includes a bunch of bugfixes and minor enhancements. A lot of our focus was on some upcoming big changes, details for which you can read at the end of this document!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
k6 v0.39.0 is here! :tada: It's a small release that includes a bunch of bugfixes and minor enhancements. A lot of our focus was on some upcoming big changes. You can read about what's next at the end of this document.
```

Author: Resolved by the latest [force push](https://github.com/grafana/k6/compare/9d682d82437985265e135cd6a24080be0b007dbd..6f763113a21481f8b3d72ac5496366cd5ffbd982)

## Enhancements and UX improvements

- [#2274](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2274) and [#2560](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2560): The `csv` output supports a new `timeFormat` option (also configurable through the `K6_CSV_TIME_FORMAT` environment variable) with the possible values of `unix` (the default) and `rfc3399`. Thanks, @rpocklin!

> - [#2509](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2509): Add `clear()` and `delete()` methods to the [`CookieJar` object](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/cookiejar/) from the [`k6/http`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/) module. Thanks, @Maksimall89!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#2509](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2509) added the `clear()` and `delete()` methods to the [`CookieJar` object](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/cookiejar/) from the [`k6/http`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/) module. Thanks, @Maksimall89!
```

Author: Resolved by the latest [force push](https://github.com/grafana/k6/compare/9d682d82437985265e135cd6a24080be0b007dbd..6f763113a21481f8b3d72ac5496366cd5ffbd982)

> - [#2282](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2282): The iterations/s precision in the UI progress bars was increased. Thanks, @m3hm3t!

Reviewer 2: we might want to mention all the other people who have worked on this

Author: Resolved by the latest [force push](https://github.com/grafana/k6/compare/9d682d82437985265e135cd6a24080be0b007dbd..6f763113a21481f8b3d72ac5496366cd5ffbd982)?

> - [#2282](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2282): The iterations/s precision in the UI progress bars was increased. Thanks, @m3hm3t!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#2282](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2282) increased the precision of the iteration-progress bar in the UI. Thanks, @m3hm3t!
```

- [#2568](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2568): Added more descriptive error messages when there were problems with parsing a config file.

## Bug fixes

- [#2523](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2523): Fixed a gRPC marshaling error when `any.proto` was used for a type. Thanks, @Flowersea!
- [#2534](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2534): Fixed the return type of [`Selection.map()`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-html/selection/selection-map) from the [`k6/html` module](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-html/) to the correct object types instead of a forced array of strings.

> - [#2502](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2502): k6 will now wait for scenario executors to fully finish before updating their final progress in the UI, preventing misleading red crosses ([#2500](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2500)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#2502](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2502): Made it so k6 waits for scenario executors to fully finish before updating their final progress in the UI, preventing misleading red crosses ([#2500](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2500)).
```

- [#2524](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2524): Fixed a bug where GoError string contained missing URL values ([#2537](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2537)).
- [#2530](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2530): Fixed a wrong error message on remote resolution.
- [#2542](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2542): Fixed a bug where `Rate` metric and sub-metric values were shown as `NaN` in the end-of-test summary if there were no measured values for them during the test run.
- [#2558](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2558): Fixed a panic when trying to set the value of a [`vu.tags` element from `k6/execution`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-execution/#vu) to `null` or `undefined`.
- [#2567](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2567): Fixed a panic when trying to access some [`k6/execution`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-execution/) properties outside of a VU context, e.g. trying to access `execution.scenario` in `setup()`.

## Maintenance and internal improvements

- [#2550](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2550): Updated the used Go version to 1.18.

> - [#2524](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2524), [#2551](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2551), [#2552](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2552), [#2553](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2553), [#2554](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2554), [#2555](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2555): Updates of various Go dependencies in k6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#2524](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2524), [#2551](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2551), [#2552](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2552), [#2553](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2553), [#2554](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2554), [#2555](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2555): Updated various Go dependencies in k6
```

Author: Resolved by the latest [force push](https://github.com/grafana/k6/compare/9d682d82437985265e135cd6a24080be0b007dbd..6f763113a21481f8b3d72ac5496366cd5ffbd982)

# Roadmap and future plans

## `k6/experimental` modules

TBD

> 

Reviewer 2: This IMO should be on the top - the majority of the other changes are pretty insignificant for most users, and if they care about something they will likely go look for it or did follow the issue. 

But I would really prefer if more people see these message clicking on the release even if they would not intend on reading the actual Changelog.

Author: :-1: changelog on top, it is a release note document after all :sweat_smile: but the release notes are tiny this time anyway, so everyone will notice the big announcements below

> k6 v0.39.0 is here! :tada: It's a small release that includes a bunch of bugfixes and minor enhancements. A lot of our focus was on some upcoming big changes. You can read about what's coming up next at the end of this document.

Reviewer 2: At the "end of the document" makes it seem like it will be at the end ... but it's actually from before the middle.  So we might want to rephrase it here or the head section to be "At the end starts here"

Reviewer 3: As an alternative, we could directly mention the specific section.

```suggestion
k6 v0.39.0 is here! :tada: It's a small release that includes a bunch of bugfixes and minor enhancements. A lot of our focus was on some upcoming big changes. You can read about what's coming up next in the [Roadmap and future plan section](#roadmap-and-future-plans).
```

Author: hmm true :sweat_smile: how about something like this?

> A lot of our focus was on some upcoming big changes, described in the second part of this document

Author: Resolved in the [latest force-push](https://github.com/grafana/k6/compare/6f763113a21481f8b3d72ac5496366cd5ffbd982..3ab85778f61ebfdea240957dc995f084a466b270) with minor modifications.

- [#2542](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2542) fixed a bug where `Rate` metric and sub-metric values were shown as `NaN` in the end-of-test summary if there were no measured values for them during the test run.
- [#2558](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2558) fixed a panic when trying to set the value of a [`vu.tags` element from `k6/execution`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-execution/#vu) to `null` or `undefined`.
- [#2567](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2567) fixed a panic when trying to access some [`k6/execution`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-execution/) properties outside of a VU context, e.g. trying to access `execution.scenario` in `setup()`.

## Maintenance and internal improvements

- [#2550](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2550) updated the used Go version to 1.18.
- [#2524](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2524), [#2551](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2551), [#2552](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2552), [#2553](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2553), [#2554](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2554), [#2555](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2555) updated various Go dependencies in k6

# Roadmap and future plans

> As the lack of big changes above suggests, over the last few months we have focused our efforts in a few areas that haven't yet been merged into the core of k6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As this release's lack of big changes suggests, over the last few months we have focused our efforts in a few areas that haven't yet been merged into the core of k6.
```

> We are introducing this new section in the release notes to inform the community of important features that we are currently working on - our short-term roadmap in a sense. We will also use it to give notice of breaking changes we plan to make in the near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we'd like to inform the community about important features that we're currently working on - our short-term roadmap in a sense. We'll also use it to give notice of breaking changes we plan to make in the near future.
```

## `k6/experimental/*` JS modules

> Over the last several k6 releases, among a lot of other refactoring, we've added support for JavaScript event loops ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228)) in k6 VUs and added a new Go API for exposing built-in and xk6 extension modules to user scripts ([announcement](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/master/release%20notes/v0.36.0.md#extensions), [docs](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension)). This has given us (and any xk6 extension authors!) the ability to better support various asynchronous streaming/messaging/etc. protocols ([#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882#issue-392218655)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Over the last several k6 releases, among a lot of other refactorings, we've added support for JavaScript event loops ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228)) in k6 VUs and added a new Go API for exposing built-in and xk6 extension modules to user scripts ([announcement](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/master/release%20notes/v0.36.0.md#extensions), [docs](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension)). This has given us (and any xk6 extension authors!) the ability to better support various asynchronous streaming/messaging/etc. protocols ([#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882#issue-392218655)).
```

> Over the last several k6 releases, among a lot of other refactoring, we have added support for JavaScript event loops ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228)) in k6 VUs and added a new Go API for exposing built-in and xk6 extension modules to user scripts ([announcement](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/master/release%20notes/v0.36.0.md#extensions), [docs](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension)). This has given us (and any xk6 extension authors!) the ability to better support various asynchronous streaming/messaging/etc. protocols ([#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882#issue-392218655)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the last several k6 releases, among a lot of other refactoring, we've added support for JavaScript event loops ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228)) in k6 VUs and added a new Go API for exposing built-in and xk6 extension modules to user scripts ([announcement](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/master/release%20notes/v0.36.0.md#extensions), [docs](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension)). This has given us (and any xk6 extension authors!) the ability to better support various asynchronous streaming/messaging/etc. protocols ([#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882#issue-392218655)).
```

> We have started building some of these newly possible APIs as [xk6 extensions](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/) first, to be able to iterate on them more quickly and get user some feedback while we are building them. [xk6-websockets](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-websockets), [xk6-timers](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-timers) and [xk6-redis](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-redis/) are some of the first such APIs, but we plan to also work on support for gRPC streaming ([#2020](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2020)), messaging protocols ([#1269](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1269)), a new and better HTTP API ([#2461](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2461)) and many others in the future!

Reviewer 5: Probably want to replace `get user some feedback` with `get some feedback`.

> We want to eventually include a lot of these APIs into the k6 core, as built-in modules that users can directly use, without the need to mess with xk6 or Go compilation. However, because we try to keep the built-in k6 APIs stable and backwards-compatible, we want to get more user feedback before we do that, while we are still free to iterate and make (hopefully minor) breaking changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to eventually include a lot of these APIs in the k6 core as built-in modules that users can directly use, without needing to mess with xk6 or Go compilation. However, because we try to keep the built-in k6 APIs stable and backwards-compatible, we want to get more user feedback before we do that, while we are still free to iterate and make (hopefully minor) breaking changes.
```

> So, we decided to create a new middle ground between the unstable and purely external xk6 extensions and the stable built-in k6 APIs - built-in `k6/experimental/*` modules! Our goal is that, starting with the next k6 v0.40.0 release, we'll start releasing some or all of these core-bound extensions as built-in k6 modules under these `k6/experimental/` import paths. This will allow all k6 users, both OSS and Cloud, to give us feedback and help us improve the APIs before we stabilize them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, we decided to create a new middle ground between the unstable and purely external xk6 extensions and the stable built-in k6 APIs―built-in `k6/experimental/*` modules! Our goal is that, starting with the next k6 v0.40.0 release, we'll start releasing some or all of these core-bound extensions as built-in k6 modules under these `k6/experimental/` import paths. This will let k6 users, both OSS and Cloud, to give us feedback and help us improve the APIs before we stabilize them.
```

> As is hopefully clear from the name, our usual guarantees of API stability won't apply to these modules while they are still experimental. We reserve the right to make breaking changes in `experimental` modules, up to and including completely dropping them. We don't expect big breaking changes will need to happen often, but we want to be clear they aren't impossible. Finally, whenever we feel like a new experimental API has been stabilized, we'll move it to its final stable import path, but there will be at least one k6 release where the module will be accessible through both import paths, so its users have time to move on to the new stable import path.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As is hopefully clear from the name, our usual guarantees of API stability won't apply to these modules while they are still experimental. We reserve the right to make breaking changes in `experimental` modules, up to and including completely dropping them. We don't expect big breaking changes will need to happen often, but we want to be clear they aren't impossible. Finally, whenever we feel like a new experimental API has been stabilized, we'll move it to its final stable import path. Still, there will be at least one k6 release where the module will be accessible through both import paths, so users have time to move on to the new stable import path.
```

## Native support for ECMAScript modules

> At the moment, k6 has support for [ECMAScript modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) (ESM, i.e. `import`, `export`, etc.) via [automatic transpilation](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/javascript-compatibility-mode/) of scripts by the built-in [Babel.js](https://babeljs.io/). That mostly works, but it has caused some performance and compatibility problems ([#824](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/824#issuecomment-915918351) and [#2168](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2168#issuecomment-1014276690) among others), so we want to support ESM modules and all other ES6 features directly in k6, without the need for Babel.js ([#2296](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2296#issuecomment-993356717)). [goja](https://github.com/dop251/goja), the JavaScript runtime we use to elavulate k6 scripts, doesn't yet have native ESM support, so we are currently working on adding it there to then be able to support ECMAScript modules natively in k6!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
At the moment, k6 has support for [ECMAScript modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) (ESM, i.e. `import`, `export`, etc.) via [automatic transpilation](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/javascript-compatibility-mode/) of scripts by the built-in [Babel.js](https://babeljs.io/). That mostly works, but it has caused some performance and compatibility problems ([#824](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/824#issuecomment-915918351) and [#2168](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2168#issuecomment-1014276690) among others), so we want to support ESM modules and all other ES6 features directly in k6, without the need for Babel.js ([#2296](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2296#issuecomment-993356717)). [goja](https://github.com/dop251/goja), the JavaScript runtime we use to evaluate k6 scripts, doesn't yet have native ESM support, so we are currently working on adding it there too then be able to support ECMAScript modules natively in k6!
```

> That work has been ongoing for a while and we're making progress, but it will likely not be ready in time for the next k6 v0.40.0 release. We are mentioning it here because we will probably need to make a few minor breaking changes and fixes of currently undefined behavior in k6 to support ESM modules natively. For example, at the moment, some values like the consolidated script `options` were unintentionally made available globally, in all JS modules of a test, instead of just in the exported `options` value from the main JS module. That is not the intended or documented behavior, it's somewhere between a bug and undefined behavior, and we'll need to fix it ([#2571](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2571)) and other similar issues like it, starting in k6 v0.40.0.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That work has been ongoing for a while and we're making progress, but it will likely not be ready in time for the next k6 v0.40.0 release. We are mentioning it here because we will probably need to make a few minor breaking changes and fixes of currently undefined behavior in k6 to support ESM modules natively.

:warning: For example, at the moment, some values like the consolidated script `options` were unintentionally made available globally, in all JS modules of a test, instead of just in the exported `options` value from the Main JavaScript module. That is not the intended or documented behavior, it's undefined behavior, and we'll need to fix it ([#2571](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2571)).
```

Author: See latest version, changed it somewhat like this, but without the :warning:.

> We don't expect many scripts to break because of these fixes, but we'll nevertheless announce them as breaking changes in the release notes of the k6 version that they happen in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We don't expect many scripts to break because of these fixes, but we'll nevertheless announce them as breaking changes in the `v0.40.0` release notes of the k6 version that they happen in.
```

Author: hm the sentence doesn't make sense with this addition :confused:

> ## Refactoring metrics, Prometheus remote-write output and tracing support

Reviewer 2: There is effectively zero "tracing support" discussed below. And I would argue it should be in it's own section either way

Author: Tracing will probably be a jslib initially, so its own section is probably a bit too much in these release notes, maybe in the next ones? :thinking:

Reviewer 2: Then maybe drop it at least from the headline as it makes it sound like we will be talking about it down, and it's just one more thing we will build on top of the timeseires refactor

Author: hmm :thinking: it's still something we will worn on, so maybe I can add one more sentence about tracing, something like this:
> Tracing is one of the first new features that will make use of these new non-indexable tags, to store things like the unique trace and span IDs without affecting other parts of k6.

?

Reviewer 2: :shrug:

One of the upcoming next big steps is the introduction of a "time series" concept internally in k6 ([#2580](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2580)). We'll start to efficiently group samples (i.e. metric measurements) with the same metric and tags into a single `TimeSeries`, which would unlock many of possibilities that were previously too inefficient to implement. First among them will probably be the refactoring and improvement of the [Prometheus remote-write output extension](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-output-prometheus-remote/) and its eventual merging into k6 as a built-in k6 output.

> Another upcoming metrics-related change would be the refactoring of [metric tags](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/tags-and-groups/#tags) into two distinct types - ones that can be used for indexing (so, in the `TimeSeries` mentioned above, in [sub-metric thresholds](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/thresholds/#thresholds-on-tags), in certain outputs that do aggregation based on tags, etc. ) and ones that cannot (e.g. high cardinality metadata data that's often unique for every data point). The exact new APIs are still being discussed, but we'll try to make them maximally backwards-compatible. The change is necessary both to implement the time series refactoring mentioned above and also for things like tracing support ([#2128](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2128)).

Reviewer 3: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_series

@MattDodsonEnglish It's a concept known without the hyphen so I'm not sure we should add it here. Does The Gotham Grammarian still make sense in this case?

> Another upcoming metrics-related change would be the refactoring of [metric tags](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/tags-and-groups/#tags) into two distinct types - ones that can be used for indexing (so, in the `TimeSeries` mentioned above, in [sub-metric thresholds](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/thresholds/#thresholds-on-tags), in certain outputs that do aggregation based on tags, etc. ) and ones that cannot (e.g. high cardinality metadata data that's often unique for every data point). The exact new APIs are still being discussed, but we'll try to make them maximally backwards-compatible. The change is necessary both to implement the time series refactoring mentioned above and also for things like tracing support ([#2128](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2128)).

Reviewer: Since the phrase acts as an adjective (modifying "refactoring"), most style guides, including Gotham Grammarian, would hyphenate here.

That Wikipedia article has a few hyphenated instances (`CTRL+F` `time-series`), usually before "data" or "segmentation": https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time-series_segmentation

But what you say is true: compared to something like the _The New Yorker_, technical documentation is much less likely to hyphenate. Generally, I prefer the hypen because it gives the reader a tiny clue that these words are joined. Sometimes tech docs will have phrases like " packet switched data communication network protocol" which are just awful to read.

But in this case it is a small, small detail, so I certainly won't be sad if it is taken out.

> Another upcoming metrics-related change would be the refactoring of [metric tags](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/tags-and-groups/#tags) into two distinct types - ones that can be used for indexing (so, in the `TimeSeries` mentioned above, in [sub-metric thresholds](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/thresholds/#thresholds-on-tags), in certain outputs that do aggregation based on tags, etc. ) and ones that cannot (e.g. high cardinality metadata data that's often unique for every data point). The exact new APIs are still being discussed, but we'll try to make them maximally backwards-compatible. The change is necessary both to implement the time series refactoring mentioned above and also for things like tracing support ([#2128](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2128)).

Author: I think this change suggestion was for the old version of the release notes, before I split apart the "Refactoring metrics" section? So I couldn't merge it as it was, but I agree with @MattDodsonEnglish that it's easier to read these with hyphenation.

> We'll probably need to make at least a few minor breaking changes here. We'll try to give at least one k6 version's notice whenever possible. That is, we'll try to print a warning when a k6 behavior that will be broken in the next k6 release is used. The biggest potentially breaking change is that the current [`url`, `error`, `vu` and `iter` system tags](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/tags-and-groups/#system-tags) will be made non-indexable, to reflect their usually very high cardinality, so they won't be usable in thresholds. Instead of `error`, `error_code` should be used there. And instead of `url`, users should already use `name`, see the [documentation about URL grouping](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/http-requests/#url-grouping).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We'll probably need to make at least a few minor breaking changes here. We'll try to give at least one k6 version's notice whenever possible. That is, we'll try to print a warning when a k6 behavior that will be broken in the next k6 release is used.

:warning: The biggest potentially breaking change is that the current [`url`, `error`, `vu` and `iter` system tags](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/tags-and-groups/#system-tags) will be made non-indexable, to reflect their usually very high cardinality, so they won't be usable in thresholds. [error_code](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/error-codes/) should be used as a replacement for `error`. And instead of `url`, users should already use `name`, see the [documentation about URL grouping](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/http-requests/#url-grouping).
```

Author: See latest version, changed it somewhat like this, but without the :warning:.

- [#2524](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2524) fixed a bug where GoError string contained missing URL values ([#2537](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2537)).
- [#2530](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2530) fixed a wrong error message on remote resolution.
- [#2542](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2542) fixed a bug where `Rate` metric and sub-metric values were shown as `NaN` in the end-of-test summary if there were no measured values for them during the test run.
- [#2558](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2558) fixed a panic when trying to set the value of a [`vu.tags` element from `k6/execution`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-execution/#vu) to `null` or `undefined`.
- [#2567](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2567) fixed a panic when trying to access some [`k6/execution`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-execution/) properties outside of a VU context, e.g. trying to access `execution.scenario` in `setup()`.

## Maintenance and internal improvements

- [#2550](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2550) updated the used Go version to 1.18.

> - [#2524](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2524), [#2551](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2551), [#2552](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2552), [#2553](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2553), [#2554](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2554), [#2555](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2555) updated various Go dependencies in k6

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [#2524](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2524), [#2551](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2551), [#2552](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2552), [#2553](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2553), [#2554](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2554), [#2555](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2555) updated various Go dependencies in k6.
```

:see_no_evil:

- [#2583](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2583) added a deprecation warning for thresholds that use the `url`, `error`, `vu` or `iter` tags, which [will become](#refactoring-metrics) un-indexable in the future.

# Roadmap and future plans

> As this lack of big changes in this release suggests, we've focused the last few months' efforts in a few areas that haven't yet been merged into the core of k6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the lack of big changes in this release suggests, we've focused the last few months' efforts on a few areas that haven't yet been merged into the core of k6.
```
